# SouthICMAudioDataset_Code
There are currently a limited number of Indian classical music datasets, especially those large enough and with useful annotations for training classification or prediction models. The tonic pitch, or base pitch, plays an important role in music, so much that it is sometimes called the keynote. The vocalists and the accompanying instrumental ensemble are fine-tuned to this keynote to render the composition. However, unlike in the western music where the tonic for a composition is predetermined, in Indian Classical Music (ICM), the lead artist or the vocalist chooses the tonic and other artists attune their rendition to the tonic. To create a large dataset with useful tonic annotations, we compiled these data. This dataset contains snippets covering four different tonics, ranging from F# to A, which are the most commonly used tonics.

[The dataset (linked)](https://doi.org/10.17632/nkdm57hvw3.1) contains two main files: "Carnatic_Dataset_Snippets.zip", a ZIP file containing the 20 second audio snippets, and "Carnatic_Dataset.csv", a CSV file containing the metadata and tonic annotations. Unzipping the ZIP file extracts a folder containing 4 sub folders for each of the 4 tonics represented in the dataset, labeled with the tonic name, such as "F#". Each of the 4 tonic folders contains 20 second snippets of songs in South Indian classical, or Carnatic, music.

Dataset_Creation_Formatting.ipynb here contains the code used to segment the raw audio files (multiple minutes long) into 20 second snippets, and create a directory file for the dataset.

This dataset can be reused by other researchers to train their classification/prediction models and other automated systems to predict and leverage tonic. These data can also be valuable in helping new or experienced music learners test their pitch and find which tonic works best for them.
